# learn How To Learn

---

## Content

- [learn How To Learn](#learn-how-to-learn)
  - [Content](#content)
  - [Module 1: Focused \& Diffuse Modes Of Thinking](#module-1-focused--diffuse-modes-of-thinking)
  - [Module 2: Memory, Sleep \& Procrastination](#module-2-memory-sleep--procrastination)
    - [Memory](#memory)
    - [Sleep](#sleep)
    - [Procrastination](#procrastination)
  - [Module 3: Chunks, Illusion Of Competence \& Learning](#module-3-chunks-illusion-of-competence--learning)
    - [Chunks](#chunks)
    - [Illusion Of Competence](#illusion-of-competence)
    - [Learning](#learning)
  - [Module 4: Zombie Mode](#module-4-zombie-mode)
 

---

## Module 1: Focused & Diffuse Modes Of Thinking

1. What Is Learning?
* Learning is the process of acquiring new knowledge, skills, behaviors, or attitude through experience, study or instruction.
* Learning, involves making connections between different pieces of information and forming a deep understanding of how things work.

1. How Our Brain Learn?
1. During **Waking**: During waking hours, the brain is constantly processing informations and making new connections.
1. During **Sleep** : During sleep, the brain consolidates and strengthens memories, as well as process new information learned during the wake (the most heavy thinking is done unconscious).

1. Focused & Diffuse Modes Of thinking
1. **Focused Mode**
* Is a state of deep concentration and intense mental focus on a particular task or activity.
* It allows you to work efficiently and effectively on a single task without getting sidetracked by other thoughts or distractions.
1. **Diffuse Mode**
* Is a state of mind in which your brain is relaxed and not focused on a particular task (sleep or exercise).
* It allows you to make connections and generate creative ideas subconsciously. 

## Module 2: Memory, Sleep & Procrastination

### Memory

1. Different Types Of Memory?
1. **Working Memory**:
* Is the part of memory that has to do with you're immediately and consciously processing in your mind.
* It can only holds (04) four chunks of informations.
1. **Long Term Memory**:
* It's like a storage warehouse.
* Long term memory is durable yet changeable.
1. How To Move Things From Working Memory To Long Term Memory?
1. By Using **Spaced Repetition**:
* Spaced Repetition, is a memory technique that involves reviewing and recalling information at optimal spacing intervals until the information is learned at a sufficient level.
1. Advices Related To Learning:
* Practice make things permanent.
* Doing a little every day is better than all at once.
* Doing physical exercise is an important item in the process of learning. 

### Sleep

1. How Our Affect Our Learning?
* Just plain being awake creates toxics products in your brain (Metabolic toxins).
* During the sleep, the brain get rid of this poisons.
* During the sleep, the brain tidies up ideas and concepts that we learn.
* During the sleep; the brain erases the less important parts of memories and simultaneously strengthens areas that you want to remember.
* The sleep enhance creativity, problem solving, and cognitive flexibility.

### Procrastination

1. What Is The Procrastination?

Is the action of unnecessarily and voluntarily delaying or postponing some thing despite knowing that there will be negative consequences for doing so.

1. How The Procrastination works?
1. Feel unhappy.
1. Funnel attention to more pleasure task (Watching mobile...).
1. Feel happy temporarily.
1. How To Overcome Procrastination?
1. Set a Timer for 25 min (Pomodor Technique).
1. Be very focused, during this Pomodor session (25 min).
1. Take 5 min Break.
1. Reward you self.

## Module 3: Chunks, Illusion Of Competence & Learning

### Chunks

1. What Is a Chunk?

A chunk is a cognitive process that involves grouping or organizing pieces of informations together in a way that makes easier to remember or process.

1. How To Form A Chunk?
1. Focused attention.
1. Understanding (The concept `How`, The Context `When`).
1. Practice.
1. What is the importance of having a library of chunks?
* Helps to be more creative (By using diffuse mode to connect different chunks).
* Helps to understand new chunks (By using a technique called transfer, which transfer the old learned concepts to the new ons).

### Illusion Of Competence

1. What Is The Illusion Of Competence?

Is a phenomenon where individuals overestimate their level of understanding or mastery of a subject, despite their actual level of knowledge or skill.

1. What is The Solution Of This Phenomenon?
* Use **Recall** method: Which is a learning technique that involves retrieving information from memory in order to strengthen building chunks and enhance deep learning.

### Learning

1. How To Learn Effectively?
1. Combine Recall & Spaced Repetition: **Retrieval Practice**
1. Be Motivated.
1. Overlearning.
1. Interleaving.
1. Deliberate Practice.
1. Create a vivid Concepts for abstract topics.
1. Try to do explanation (Teach or just explain to someone).
1. Join a community.
1. Use an App to help (use Anki app).

1. What Is **Overlearning**:
* Is a learning technique that involves practicing a skill or information beyond the point of mastery.
* It is a process of continuing to practice and reinforce a skill or information even after it has been learned to a satisfactory level.

1. What Is **Interleaving**?
* It is a cognitive strategy that involves alternating between different types of tasks or concepts during practice or learning.
* It involves switching between related topics or skills in a systematic way.
* It helps to develop more flexible and adaptive problem solving skills.
* It reduce the effects of forgetting and improving long term memory retention of information.

1. What Is **Deliberate Practice**

Deliberate Practice, is a type of learning, that involves highly focused and intentional efforts to improve performance in a particular skill or domain, it includes:
  1. Focus on a specific goal: Set a specific challenging goals.
  1. Receiving feedback      : Feedback on performance from the experts in the field.
  1. Repetition with refinement. 
  1. Pushing beyond the comfort zone: Work on areas of weakness or to challenge your self to perform at a higher level.

1. How The Motivation Affect The Brain?

When you are motivated, your brain releases neurotransmitters and hormones that help us focus our attention, retain information, and remember more effectively. Some important hormones:
  * **Acetylcholine**: Affects focused learning and attention.
  * **Dopamine**     : Dopamine signals has relation to unexpected rewards.
  * **Serotonin**    : Affects social life and risk taking behavior.

1. What are the bad practices in learning?
   1. Overlearning in a big single session (Is a waste of time).
   1. Einstellung chunking: Refers to the tendency for people to relay on what they know on facing a new problem, rather than exploring new possibilities.

1. How To enhance Your Learning?
   * The best gift to your mind is **Physical Exercise**
   * Use the metaphors and visualization to understand and remember concepts.
   * Always change your thoughts by learning, to change you brain.
   * Try to learn your subjects every day for small amount of time, is better than big tile fore a single subject each day.
   
1. Advices:
   1. In a test:
    * Look at all questions first.
    * Start withe the hard question (give your subconscious a task) for a moment than switch solve the easy ones.
   1. In writing
    * Answer this questions for better writing:
      * What Am I Trying To Say?
      * What I Must Not Leave Out?
    * Be clear, the more clear and concious, the more impressive you are.
    * Always separate the editing form writing.
    * Short sentences are better than long ones.

## Module 4: Zombie Mode

1. What Is Zombie Mode?
   * The zombie mode is the state (a routine), where you start doing something (learning...) without thinking so much on how to do it, it only comes fluently.
   * The zombie mode, is a great technique to avoid procrastination and free the slots in the front of brain.
   * The secret to improve the zombie mode is to change our habits.

1. What Is A Habit?

The habit has (04) for Elements:
   1. The cue (the trigger).
   1. The Routine ( The zombie mode)
   1. The reward
   1. The belief

* For the **Cue**
  * Identify that trigger of the habit, it could be:
    * Location
    * A specific Time
    * A Feeling
* The **Routine**
  * Always have a plan.
    * Write a weekly list of key tasks.
    * Write a daily to do list.
    * The plan should have nots of what accomplished and what didn't.
    * Any task should have a starting and a finishing time.
* The **Reward**

After any accomplishment, reward your self.

1. Advices
   * Focus on building process ( a habit), not a product (passing a test).
   * Always eat your frog first (start always withe hard task) 
